#labels Featured,Phase-Deploy
== Word-DVD Installation: ==
(Tested on Ubuntu 12.04)

=== These packages need to be installed: ===
  * ffmpeg - Some non-DVD features may require compilation with libmp3lame. This is the real [http://www.ffmpeg.org/download.html ffmpeg] and not the avconv derivative which is included in some Linux distributions.
  * dvdauthor

=== Word-DVD also uses these and other standard packages ===
  * firefox
  * perl
  * !ImageMagick
  * genisoimage
  * growisofs

=== Word-DVD utilities and debugging features need these packages installed ===
  * Perl's Term::!ReadKey
  * wmctrl
  * dvbsnoop
  * eyeD3
  * sox (some features may require compilation with mp3 support)


=== Steps to make a DVD ===
1) Install the modified mjpegtools package using the [http://word-dvd.googlecode.com/files/modified-mjpegtools-i386.deb debian binary package] or compile from source: [http://word-dvd.googlecode.com/files/modified-mjpegtools-2.0.0.tar.gz 2.0.0 on Ubuntu Natty+] or [http://word-dvd.googlecode.com/files/modified-mjpegtools-1.9.0.tar.gz 1.9.0 on older Ubuntu]. This mjpegtools package contains a modified `"mplex"` multiplexer utility which is capable of creating highly compressed slide shows (10's of hours on a single DVD rather than just 1 or 2).

If you get an "illegal instruction" error when running jpeg2yuv, mplex, or mpeg2enc, then your CPU is incompatible with the provided binary and you'll have to compile from source (see above) on your machine.

2) Install the latest `"Word-DVD-xx.xpi"` Firefox extension found in the [http://code.google.com/p/word-dvd/downloads/list downloads] list. 

OR

To use the latest code in the subversion repository, do the following: SVN checkout [http://code.google.com/p/word-dvd/source/checkout Word-dvd]. Then run install.sh, and choose option 3: "use proxy extension". Enter the path of a Firefox [http://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/profiles-where-firefox-stores-user-data profile directory], and press return. A "proxy extension" will then be installed so that the Word-DVD extension used by Firefox will be the one in your SVN directory. You may then run "`svn update`" any time to get the latest code.

3) Firefox's "Tools" menu will now show "Word-DVD..." (a restart may be needed). Click to open the Word-DVD window.

4) Click the browse button for the input directory and choose an empty directory to use as the project directory. By default, the OUTPUTS and audio directory will be put beneath the project directory, but custom locations may be chosen if desired.

5) Click Go! You should see a prompt when it's finished, and the DVD files will be in OUTPUTS/dvd. If not, see the [http://code.google.com/p/word-dvd/wiki/Debugging debugging wiki] page for hints, as you may be missing a dependency.

6) Replace the example files with your own [http://code.google.com/p/word-dvd/wiki/TextInput text], and also use your own [http://code.google.com/p/word-dvd/wiki/AudioFiles audio] and [http://code.google.com/p/word-dvd/wiki/Images images] as well if you have them. Update the [http://code.google.com/p/word-dvd/source/browse/trunk/config.txt config.txt] file for the new project. Any arbitrary configuration of custom DVD menus may also be added if you wish, by putting their information in the [http://code.google.com/p/word-dvd/source/browse/trunk/menus/menus.txt menus.txt] file. Re-run Word-DVD.

<br>
=== Testing and Burning to DVD ===
The final DVD files will be located in `OUTPUTS/dvd`. To burn these to DVD you need to use the proper file system, so run:
{{{
sudo xcreateiso.sh
}}}
Which is located in `OUTPUTS/script`. Then you should see the `OUTPUTS/dvd.iso` file which is ready for burning to DVD. By running `xcreateiso.sh` with `sudo`, the script will also be able to mount the iso as a dvd under `/media/dvd`.

To burn and verify a DVD, run:
{{{
./xburnverify.sh
}}}