#labels Featured,Phase-Implementation
= Text Input Files =

=== OSIS ===
A file called "`osis.xml`" can be used as the input file. It will be converted to specially formatted HTML files (see below).

=== HTML ===
You can use HTML files as source input for Word-DVD. All HTML input files should be put in the inputs directory beneath the `html` subdirectory. These HTML files follow some special rules. The names of the HTML files are also important (see below).

Multiple books can be included on one DVD, and their HTML files are named as follows:

|| `<book-name>.html` || the book itself ||
|| `<book-name>.intr.html` || the book's introduction (optional) ||
|| `<book-name>.fn.html` || the book's footnotes (optional) ||

The HTML markup for the above files must follow some special rules which are necessary for proper rendering of pages to DVD:
 * Line 1 of each file should be identical to the corresponding [http://code.google.com/p/word-dvd/source/browse/#svn%2Ftrunk%2Fhtml example html] file. It must remain as a single line, and don't bother updating any attributes, because they are automatically updated at run time. Simply copy line 1 as is.
 * All other tags within any single line of the HTML file must be closed. So you can't start a `<div>` on one line and end it with `</div>` on a later line. Both the open and close tags must always be on the same line. The first and last lines are the only exceptions.
 * Only one level of nesting is allowed. You can have a `<div>` containing a stylised `<span>`, but the span cannot itself contain its own child tags. However such content may be added using CSS.
 * Page breaks which are added during the rendering process ONLY occur at spaces (at ASCII 32). This means that if a page break possibility is desired before or after HTML tags, then there MUST be a space before and/or after each tag.
 * Manual pagebreaks can be added with "`<milestone type="x-pagebreak"/>`" in OSIS files or with "`<span class="pagebreak"></span> `" in HTML files. The space after the HTML end tag is REQUIRED. Appending "`-both`" to the above type/class attributes will break both left and right pages together.
 * There are various other tags with predefined CSS classes for creating chapters, titles, verses, images, etc. See the [http://code.google.com/p/word-dvd/source/browse/#svn%2Ftrunk%2Fhtml example html] files and the [http://code.google.com/p/word-dvd/source/browse/trunk/code/pal.css CSS] file.

=== Previewing DVD Text and Images ===
Simply open one of the HTML files in a browser to see what will be rendered to DVD. All text will appear in a single column because it is not broken into pages until Word-DVD is actually run. Forced page breaks will show up as dashed lines, but Word-DVD will automatically add additional breaks as necessary.

=== Previewing DVD Menus ===
Menus are not rendered until Word-DVD is run. At that time, the information in [http://code.google.com/p/word-dvd/source/browse/trunk/config.txt config.txt] and [http://code.google.com/p/word-dvd/source/browse/trunk/menus/menus.txt menus.txt] is used to render the menus, and they can be previewed as they are being rendered. However, the menu template can be viewed and edited by simply opening the [http://code.google.com/p/word-dvd/source/browse/trunk/code/screen.html screen.html] file in a browser. To view the "highlight" and "select" DVD button masks (which appear as users select the various DVD menu options) just change the `maskType` attribute, found in [http://code.google.com/p/word-dvd/source/browse/trunk/code/screen.html screen.html], from "none" to either "highlight" or "select". Reload the page in the browser, and the highlight or select masks will then be visible.